And let's start with D3 selections.
And so that is we're going to
look at select and select all.
So, this right now this cell is giving us,
is currently just drawing in
here an SVG container and
then five rectangle elements.
And right now because we don't
have the width and height set for
each of the rectangles, nothing is
showing up but that's okay for now.
Because what we want to do is
we want to use D3 to select
those, select the SVG,
select the rectangle elements, and
then seeing what a D3 selection
looks like underneath the hood.
So let's do this part together like
you can do it, let's do it together.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm also
going to open up my console.
So we have in this
cell some code.
And so the first one is saying,
let me go and
select this SVG that has
this id of container.
So basically I'm saying, let's go select
this SVG, put it into this variable and
then let's console log or
sorry, let's return that.
And this is what that D3
selection looks like,
it has groups and then SVG, SVG element.
And yeah, and
then if we console log of that what we
can do is take a look in the console log.
And if we expand it
this is really helpful.
The reason why I'm showing this
console log is that it's quite helpful
in debugging.
And if we're kind of confused
what our D3 selection is.
You can console log it and then it will
look like this in our console log and
if we open up this underscore groups,
that's our D3, that's kind of like
the DOM elements that like D3 is kind
of wrapping around with this selection.
So you can see actually
that is the SVG container.
And if we actually click on this,
at least in Chrome debugger, and
I think in Firefox too, it will take you
directly to the element in the DOM tree.
So then that I find to be
really helpful with debugging.
If I'm like, why is this not
happening as I expected to and so
you can even kind of like open it up and
see the rectangles that we've drawn.
So that's the SVG.
Actually now let's take a look
at what happens when we
chain that SVG and select the path.
Sorry, where is the path
I direct this was a,
I was doing something else.
So I actually I'm gonna publish that.
And then if you just refresh that
should be the correct version and so,
right now, what we want to do
is dot select a rectangle.
And let's take a look at
what that console logs do.
So that if we open up these groups and
then we see that it is one rectangle.
And if we click on that rectangle, and
it will highlight in the DOM
that it's the first rectangle.
So, dot select will
grab the first element that
matches this selector.
And finally, with select all.
We're gonna go and
select all of the rectangles in the SVG.
So what that looks like is in
groups it's a, an array of.
The five rectangles.
So if I click on any of them,
it's the first one then the second one,
the third one, fourth one and fifth one.
So this is what it looks
like underneath the hood.
And the reason why I wanted to show
this is because with a D3 selection,
what happens is that it has
this underscore groups,
which is kind of the DOM
elements that D3 has selected.
And then it has this set of functions, and
these are actually the functions
that a D3 selection supports.
So you can chain things
like selecting more things.
Select all being able to filter,
bind data etc, so
these are all of the kind of
like D3 selection functions.
And this is how it's letting us and
you'll see in a bit that
will be chaining and
these D3 or actually you even
you already see now that.
We're chaining like select on select, and
we'll chain more things later on too.
So that's what's happening here.
And so these are kind of all of the
selection methods, and all of them will
either take in a selector string which
as far as I've ever seen, works the same
way as the CSS selector strings that
we might be really familiar with.
Or you can pass in directly
a reference to a DOM element.
And either if that works and
it will return a D3 selection.
And the other thing to know is that
the first two where it's D3 dot select,
that will search through
the entire DOM tree and
return either the first thing that
matches or everything that matches.
And the second thing, second part
is that you can chain you know,
a selection and then what happens
there is it will be restricted to
just the children of the selection
that we chained upon.